# hybrid-am
Many of you may have seen a post that previously posted on LinkedIn about a project I am working on at home, building a hybrid 3D printer, truly just for fun, and because I like to push the boundaries of technology and push forward Additive Manufacturing at the same time. This isn't just any hybrid AM machine though. I am going for a lot of "extras", where many are probably going to say "that can't be done" or "to do that it's going to be extremely expensive". My answer to the nay-sayers is, let's collaboratively prove them wrong, and produce a hybrid 3D printer with all of the extras and characteristics I list below, for under $1K! I have all of the hardware to make this happen. I need your help to produce the program to make this work cohesively.

So to my Additive Manufacturing brethren / community, I’m building a hybrid 3D printer (FDM based, 1m x 1m x 1m build volume, high temperature, heated build chamber, etc.) of my own design where the intent is to also make it a CNC mill, and a laser cutter / engraver 30W/7.5W output, where I want to make the software pick which head to engage and use. My intent is to make it entirely open source and updateable over time. My board is a Bigtreetech SKR Pro V1.2 to start, with a BTT TFT 70 touchscreen module, and BL Touch auto Leveling sensor. I have a few different extruders /hot ends I’m picking from but the one I’ll most likely put on this is a 3 in 1 out that can both mix filaments or choose between the three different filaments so that I can run two different printing materials and support material at the same time. I would like to be able to print and have the CNC be able to come back and mill surfaces, and or use the laser to cut or smooth surfaces along the way as well. As my weakest skill is programming, would anyone be willing to collaborate with me to write code to help produce this system? First, I would be forever grateful as I love expanding technical capabilities, but secondly this will provide an open source hybrid AM system for all to enjoy as well...and to improve upon over time. Once I’m done with this I will be sharing everything to the open source community for anyone else to build, improve upon, etc. as well. Let me make it clear that I am not trying to make money off of this. I want this to be available to the open source community to make better and grow capabilities for AM, hence moving AM technology forward....and doing so at an affordable price that doesn't require a major capital investment. Let's show the collaborative nature of our SME community / brethren, and the benefits of putting our heads together to solve a very complex problem, and ultimately help "me" with the part of machine building I'm not so good at, "yet". So far this system in it’s entirety will be under $1K to build. I appreciate any help or thoughts you all may have! I will be posting pictures and information on all of the hardware involved to aid in understanding the specs of the hardware, requirements, dimensions, schematics, etc. Please let me know if you have any questions.
